**1. What’s gone wrong with this code? Why are the points not blue?**

```
ggplot(data = mpg) + 
  geom_point(mapping = aes(x = displ, y = hwy, color = "blue"))
```

Since the color here isn't conveying information about a variable, and only changing the appearance of the plot, the "color" argument goes outside of the `aes()`. When that argument is in `aes()`, it's interpreted as some of the data that is being plotted and assigned a color automatically based on how that data varies, and since it's just one string, it's assigned one color.

**2. Which variables in `mpg` are categorical? Which variables are continuous? (Hint: type `?mpg` to read the documentation for the dataset). How can you see this information when you run `mpg`?**

`manufacturer`, `model`, `trans`, `drv`, `fl`, and `class` are categorical. `displ`, `year`, `cyl`, `cty`, and `hwy` are continuous.

**3. Map a continuous variable to `color`, `size`, and `shape`. How do these aesthetics behave differently for categorical vs. continuous variables?**

When mapped to a continuous variable, `color` assigns a color somewhere on a spectrum to each point. When mapped to a categorical variable, individual contrasting colors are assigned to each point based on the value of the variable.

When mapped to a continuous variable, `size` makes the size of the points vary continuously. When mapped to a categorical value, a warning message stating `Using size for a discrete variable is not advised.` is displayed and each point is sized by category. 

When `shape` is mapped to a continuous variable, an error occurs and no plot is created. When mapped to a categorical variable, points are assigned shapes based on the value. A maximum of six shapes are assigned, then a warning message is displayed saying that more than six shapes are difficult to discriminate, and the remaining values are shown as blank in the legend and not plotted on the graph. 

**4. What happens if you map the same variable to multiple aesthetics?**

Both aesthetics will be used when plotting the graph. For example, mapping class to both shape and color will give the points both a unique shape and a unique color.

**5. What does the `stroke` aesthetic do? What shapes does it work with? (Hint: use `?geom_point`)**

`stroke` will modify the width of the border for shapes that have a border.

**6. What happens if you map an aesthetic to something other than a variable name, like `aes(colour = displ < 5)`?**

The value assigned to the aesthetic must be either length 1 or the same length as the data i.e. the number of points. Each point is assigned the aesthetic based on its value. For example, `displ < 5` creates a vector of boolean values that are `TRUE` or `FALSE` based on whether displ is less than 5, so each point is assigned one color or another based on that boolean value. 
